cloud: add Premium Request Capacity Unit (RCU) doc (#22810)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/architecture-concepts.md

### RCU auto-scaling

When configuring your {{{ .premium }}} instance, you specify the maximum number of RCUs (`RCU_max`) required for your workload. TiDB Cloud automatically scales capacity within the range of `0.25 * RCU_max` to `RCU_max`.

For example, if you set the maximum capacity to 20,000 RCUs, TiDB Cloud dynamically scales the capacity between 5,000 and 20,000 RCUs based on real-time demand. This scaling is automatic and instantaneous, enabling you to consume up to the maximum number of RCUs at any time without manual intervention or delay.

### RCU billing

{{{ .premium }}} uses a usage-based billing model that charges you based on the actual Request Capacity Unit (RCU) consumption and storage usage.

#### Per-minute calculation

TiDB Cloud calculates your usage every minute. It measures the total number of Request Units (RUs) consumed within a 60-second window, calculates the average RUs per second, and uses this average value as the RCU consumption for that minute. This calculation ensures that your billing accurately reflects real-time traffic fluctuations.

#### Minimum usage requirement

> To maintain baseline capacity and ensure that resources are always available for your instance, TiDB Cloud automatically sets a minimum billing RCU based on your maximum RCU setting. This value defines the baseline reserved capacity for your instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maintain baseline capacity and ensure that resources are always available for your instance, TiDB Cloud automatically sets a minimum billing RCU based on your maximum RCU setting. This value defines the baseline reserved capacity for your instance.

```

If your actual consumption in a given minute is below this threshold, billing defaults to the minimum billing RCU. This mechanism ensures that your instance can immediately handle sudden traffic spikes up to your specified maximum, without performance degradation or delays.

> ### Request Unit (RU)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Request Unit (RU)
```

### RCU billing

{{{ .premium }}} uses a usage-based billing model that charges you based on the actual Request Capacity Unit (RCU) consumption and storage usage.

#### Per-minute calculation

TiDB Cloud calculates your usage every minute. It measures the total number of Request Units (RUs) consumed within a 60-second window, calculates the average RUs per second, and uses this average value as the RCU consumption for that minute. This calculation ensures that your billing accurately reflects real-time traffic fluctuations.

#### Minimum usage requirement

To maintain baseline capacity and ensure that resources are always available for your instance, TiDB Cloud automatically sets a minimum billing RCU based on your maximum RCU setting. This value defines the baseline reserved capacity for your instance.

If your actual consumption in a given minute is below this threshold, billing defaults to the minimum billing RCU. This mechanism ensures that your instance can immediately handle sudden traffic spikes up to your specified maximum, without performance degradation or delays.

> 
> ### Request Unit (RU)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Request Unit (RU)
```

For example, if you set the maximum capacity to 20,000 RCUs, TiDB Cloud dynamically scales the capacity between 5,000 and 20,000 RCUs based on real-time demand. This scaling is automatic and instantaneous, enabling you to consume up to the maximum number of RCUs at any time without manual intervention or delay.

### RCU billing

{{{ .premium }}} uses a usage-based billing model that charges you based on the actual Request Capacity Unit (RCU) consumption and storage usage.

#### Per-minute calculation

TiDB Cloud calculates your usage every minute. It measures the total number of Request Units (RUs) consumed within a 60-second window, calculates the average RUs per second, and uses this average value as the RCU consumption for that minute. This calculation ensures that your billing accurately reflects real-time traffic fluctuations.

#### Minimum usage requirement

To maintain baseline capacity and ensure that resources are always available for your instance, TiDB Cloud automatically sets a minimum billing RCU based on your maximum RCU setting. This value defines the baseline reserved capacity for your instance.

> 
> 
> If your actual consumption in a given minute is below this threshold, billing defaults to the minimum billing RCU. This mechanism ensures that your instance can immediately handle sudden traffic spikes up to your specified maximum, without performance degradation or delays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maintain baseline capacity and ensure that resources are always available for your instance, TiDB Cloud automatically sets a minimum billing RCU based on your maximum RCU setting. This value defines the baseline reserved capacity for your instance.

If your actual consumption in a given minute is below this threshold, billing defaults to the minimum billing RCU. This mechanism ensures that your instance can immediately handle sudden traffic spikes up to your specified maximum, without performance degradation or delays.
```

- **Vector search index support**

    The vector search index feature uses TiFlash replicas for tables, enabling advanced search capabilities and improving efficiency in complex analytical scenarios.

<CustomContent plan="premium">

## Request units and capacity in {{{ .premium }}} {#request-units-and-capacity-in-premium}

### Request Capacity Unit (RCU)

A [Request Capacity Unit (RCU)](/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-glossary.md#request-capacity-unit-rcu) is a unit of measure used to represent the provisioned compute capacity for your {{{ .premium }}} instance. One RCU provides a fixed amount of compute resources that can process a certain number of RUs per second. The number of RCUs you provision determines the baseline performance and throughput capacity of your {{{ .premium }}} instance.

One RCU represents a sustained capacity of RUs per second. For example, a baseline of *X* RCUs guarantees *X* RUs per second on average, measured over a one-minute window (or the minimum calculation window configured for your instance).

### RCU auto-scaling

> When configuring your {{{ .premium }}} instance, you specify the maximum RCU (`RCU_max`) required for your workload. TiDB Cloud automatically scales capacity within the range of `0.25 * RCU_max` to `RCU_max`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When configuring your {{{ .premium }}} instance, you specify the maximum number of RCUs (`RCU_max`) required for your workload. TiDB Cloud automatically scales capacity within the range of `0.25 * RCU_max` to `RCU_max`.
```

> For example, if you set the maximum throughput to 20,000 RCUs, TiDB Cloud dynamically scales the capacity between 5,000 and 20,000 RCUs based on real-time demand. This scaling is automatic and instantaneous, enabling you to consume up to the maximum RCU at any time without manual intervention or delay.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you set the maximum capacity to 20,000 RCUs, TiDB Cloud dynamically scales the capacity between 5,000 and 20,000 RCUs based on real-time demand. This scaling is automatic and instantaneous, enabling you to consume up to the maximum number of RCUs at any time without manual intervention or delay.
```

### RCU billing

> {{{ .premium }}} uses a usage-based billing model that charges you based on the actual Request Units that your workload consumes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{{ .premium }}} uses a usage-based billing model that charges you based on the actual Request Capacity Unit (RCU) consumption and storage usage.
```

Reviewer 2: reason: to be consistent with the concept doc
<img width="1250" height="858" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fea60dd4-2cf5-4177-a770-d135db75f2d7" />

#### Per-minute calculation

> TiDB Cloud calculates your usage every minute. It measures the total number of Request Units consumed within a 60-second window and averages this value to determine the RCU (RUs per second) for that minute. This calculation ensures that your billing accurately reflects real-time traffic fluctuations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud calculates your usage every minute. It measures the total number of Request Units (RUs) consumed within a 60-second window, calculates the average RUs per second, and uses this average value as the RCU consumption for that minute. This calculation ensures that your billing accurately reflects real-time traffic fluctuations.
```

#### Minimum usage requirement

> To maintain high availability and ensure that resources are always available for your instance, TiDB Cloud automatically sets a minimum billing RCU based on your maximum RCU setting. This value defines the baseline reserved capacity for your instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To maintain baseline capacity and ensure that resources are always available for your instance, TiDB Cloud automatically sets a minimum billing RCU based on your maximum RCU setting. This value defines the baseline reserved capacity for your instance.
```

Reviewer 2: reason: High availability is provided by the deployment architecture.

#### Baseline performance examples

The following table lists baseline performance examples for common operations to help you estimate your workload.

| Operation type | Description                              | Estimated cost |
|----------------|------------------------------------------|----------------|
| Point read     | Reading a 1 KiB item by its unique ID     | 1.5 RU         |
| OLTP write     | Standard Sysbench model (1 KiB item size) | 2.5 RU         |

> **Note:**
>
> A point read is the most efficient way to retrieve data by its unique ID. For write operations, the RU cost accounts for the I/O and indexing effort required to persist the data. RU consumption scales proportionally with the data size and operation complexity.

### Request Unit considerations

TiDB Cloud calculates the total RU charge for any operation based on the database effort required to execute it. The calculation considers the following dimensions:

- **Data access and size**

>     - **Read and write volume**: RUs scale directly with the size of the data payload. Processing a 100 KiB document consumes more RUs than a 1 KiB record.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **Read and write volume**: RUs scale directly with the size of the data payload. Processing a 100 KiB record consumes more RUs than a 1 KiB record.
```

    - **Read and write rows**: the number of rows involved in an operation is a primary cost driver. Even with small payloads, querying or updating multiple rows increases the total RU consumption because each row requires processing, locking, and validation.
    - **Indexing impact**:

>         - **Writes**: every index on a table must be updated during a write operation. Tables with more indexes incur higher RU costs for `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - **Writes**: each affected index on a table must be updated during a write operation. Tables with more indexes incur higher RU costs for `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` operations.
```

        - **Reads**: well-designed indexes significantly reduce query RUs by enabling the engine to locate rows efficiently and avoid full-table scans.

- **Query complexity**

    - **Scanning efficiency**: RU consumption is heavily influenced by the number of rows that the engine must scan.

>         - **Read metrics (estimated rows)**: a point read that uses a primary key is the most efficient operation. A query that scans millions of estimated rows consumes significantly more RUs than a query that uses an optimized index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - **Read metrics (estimated rows)**: a point read that uses a primary key or unique index is the most efficient operation. A query that scans millions of rows consumes significantly more RUs than a query that uses an optimized index.
```
